**Q. How does revocation work if credentials are not stored on the ledger?**

**A.** **1:** ”Expiration” is a case where the Credential becomes non-valid after a certain period of time or after a certain date. This is actually a value that can be included in the Credential Schema itself, and read as a Zero Knowledge Proof based upon this value, or whether the current date (or elapsed time since the date of Issue) is greater than the value represented as the expiration date. The Proof can simply check for the state of this value and make a determination of validity without any information other than the Credential Schema being written to the Ledger.

**2:** "Revocation" is the case in which the entire Credential status is revoked. A unique identifier is encoded in the Credential as a 2nd invisible attribute that corresponds to a Revocation Set maintained by the Issuer. Issuer maintains the Revocation Set off the ledger and a corresponding crypographic Revocation Accumuator that is on the ledger. The Revocation Accumulator permits a verifier to check a credential's revocation status every time a Proof Request is verified without disclosing the revocation attribute value. So the Credential is never written to the Ledger, nor is there a reverse-correlatable identifier between the Issued Credential and the Revocation. Hence, you can revoke the Credential without any data in that Credential being written to the Ledger.

A **huge** plus point of this approach is that the verifier does not to connect, contract, or integrate with any issuers to do this check, they just read the revocation accumulator from the ledger.  Similarly, the verifier doesn't need to speak to the issuer to check who issued the credential, that the data is unchanged in transit through the ID owner, and that the credential was only issued to that ID owner.

This results in massive scale benefits as a verifier doesn't need loads of APIs to loads of issuers to "phone home" to check things. They simply execute a ledger read and they're done.
