### Prerequisites

Before upgrading, it is recommended that you back up your system or take
a snapshot of your VM.

#### Upgrade to Ubuntu 18.04
This is a good opportunity to upgrade your agent to run Ubuntu 18.04, if it is currently running 16.04. First, update all packages on your VM:

```bash
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
$ sudo reboot
```
After getting back into your VM, run the upgrade command:

```bash
$ sudo do-release-upgrade
```
Follow the onscreen install instructions. If prompted, keep existing SSH and `grub` configuration files.

#### Upgrade the Libraries

Retrieve the libraries needed for the upgrade from a single horizontal line of the [resources web page](/portal/software-downloads/). For this upgrade, get the files from the line with the Libindy 1.12.0 release.

Using these files, run the installation (upgrade) commands for the libraries on your VM.

```bash
# sudo dpkg -i libindy_1.12.0_amd64.deb
```
If an error occurred here. Fix it with `install -f` and continue installing.

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install -f
$ sudo dpkg -i libsovtoken_1.0.3_amd64.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i libvcx_0.4.59278406-4632843_amd64.deb
$ sudo apt-get install -f
```

If you are using the Python or Node.js wrapper, download the latest wrapper from the [resources web page](/portal/software-downloads/) and replace the old wrapper with it.

`Python`

```bash
$ tar xzf python3-vcx-wrapper_0.2.41140129.tar.gz
```

Update the `PYTHONPATH` environmet variable in your `.bashrc` to point to the new wrapper location.

If you use QR codes in your solution, and you upgraded to Ubuntu 18.04, you many need to re-install your Python QR code library at this time.

```bash
$ pip3 install qrcode[pil]
```

`Node.js`

Copy the new node wrapper into your Node.js project directory. Verify that the package versions required for this version of LibVCX are in your `packages.json` file. Edit your NPM package JSON file accordingly, remembering to update the `node-vcx-wrapper`'s version, and re-run `npm install`

```json
{
  "name": "vcx-cli-tools-nodejs",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "VCX CLI Tools",
  "scripts": {
    "nodeVCXTools": "node vcx-cli-tools.js"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "base64url": "^3.0.1",
    "ffi": "^2.3.0",
    "ffu": "0.0.1",
    "fs-extra": "^7.0.0",
    "make-runnable": "^1.3.6",
    "node-vcx-wrapper": "node-vcx-wrapper_0.4.59280596-4632843_amd64.tgz",
    "qr-image": "^3.2.0",
    "sleep": "^6.0.0",
    "uuid": "^3.3.3"
  }
}
```

#### API Changes
There are no API changes in this release.
