## Walk through the Village

The Credential Village is an essential part of the learning content for Evernym
and Sovrin's Decentralized Identity platform. In this first step, you will
"walk through" the Village and receive a few Credentials.

### Step 1 : Install Connect.me

In order to make Connections and receive Credentials, you will need to have a
mobile device with iOS or Android operating systems and download the Connect.me
mobile wallet app from Evernym. Although this is the only *current* Credential
Wallet app available, the codebase is open source and many other Credential
Wallet apps will follow, just as there are multiple cryptocurrency wallet apps
available.

#### [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/connect-me/id1260651672)

![CM_06](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/verityui-demo/CM_06.png){: height="300"}

#### [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=me.connect)

![appstore](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/verityui-demo/appstore-google.png){: width="400"}

### Step 2 : Get Your Village Access Credential

In order to begin, you *must* have a Village Access Credential from Evernym.
Currently the only way to get this is to request one through Evernym's Customer
Success team, or to enroll in our Early Access Program! You will be issued
instructions and a QR code to Connection and receive your Access Credential
from Customer Success or an EAP representative.

### Step 3 : Browse the Credential Village Home

Using a browser, either mobile or desktop, you can access the Village
Homepage at https://village.evernym.com. 

### Step 4 : Get Your Village Passport

Your Village Passport is the first stop! This will deliver a Village Passport
Credential to you for further Credentials. In order to receive this Credential,
you will first be asked to Validate your Access Credential. A Data Share
Request will be sent to you, asking for validation of your Access Credential.
This validation process will only accept the Access Token from the Evernym
Village Access DID, which has been distributed to you in Step 2. If you missed
this Step, your Data Share Request will be invalid and you will have to return
later with the correct Credential. Once you have Validated the Access
Credential, you will be offered a Passport Credential. If you accept this
Credential it will be issued to you through Connect.me. This Passport
Credential and its data field will be used in complex proofs later, where it
will be requested along with other Credential fields to verify who you are.
Just like a driver's license or passport in your wallet, this serves as your
primary form of identification in the world of Digital Credentials.


![CM_01](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_CM_01.png){: height="300"}

![CM_01](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_CM_09.png){: width="300"}


### Step 5 : Get a Utility Credential

In many parts of the world, there is no way to tie you to a physical address
for location-based services and rights such as State residency or voting. For
this reason, many people will ask for a "utility" receipt or location statement
with your name on it to verify your residence. Evernym's Credential Village has
a virtual Utility company in order to issue you an address to get other
credentials that require it. If you go to the Village Utility
Company you will be asked to Connect with them, and then be Issued a Data Share Request for your Passport.
If you have a Village Passport, the Credential will be validated and you will
be Issued a Utility Credential with a fictional physical address. If you
haven't completed Step 4, then the Data Share Request will be invalid and you
will not be offered or issued a Credential.


![Village UI 03](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_UI_02.png){: width="400"}



![Village UI 03](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_CM_09.png){: width="400"}



### Step 6 : Get a Bank Account

In order to survive in a modern economy, you're going to need some type of
financial service account where you can transfer funds from one place to
another. The Village Bank is a
necessary part of your virtual collection of Credentials. In order to receive a
Village Bank Account Credential, you will need to prove that you have 2 fields
from 2 separate Institutions! You will need a Passport Credential from the
Passport Office *and* an address Credential as issued by the Village Utility
Office! The Credential Exchange system allows for complex Data Shares, in which
specific fields can be requested from specific Institution DID's. In this case
the Data Share Request you receive will ask for your Passport ID name data
*and* your Utility Address field data. If you have followed all the Steps up
until this point, you should have both of these Credentials in your Connect.me
wallet! If not, you'll have to go back and get them from the appropriate
Village locations.


![Village UI 03](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_UI_03.png){: width="400"}



![Village UI 09](https://static.pps.evernym.com/training/getting-started-credential-village/VILLAGE_CM_09.png){: width="400"}
