## Zero Knowledge Proofs

As mentioned previously, the need to know the value of any Credential Attribute in the world of SSI is often minimal. There are many times when the *existence* of a Credential Attribute with the correct Attribute Name from the correct Issuer DID is good enough. The *value* doesn't need to be known. 

### Case 1: Existence and Issuer DID

The minimal amount of information I can ask for is a combination of *existence* and *Issuer DID*. In order to verify your identity I can simply verify that a Passport Credential has a value called "Last Name", and that Credential Attribute has been signed and issued to you from your nation's Government Office. I don't actually need the value of that data, which is your actual last name. In the case that I am validating the Passport, I am asking you if you have a Passport. I can validate that information by knowing the Issuer DID and the Credential Attribute Name. In order to Validate these things, the Sovrin Ledger will be checked to see if the signature on the Credential matches the Issuer DID and Credential Definition. All of your Proof Restrictions can be checked in this way, almost instantaneously. Once I know both of these match my Proof Definition and restrictions, I can assume that this Credential Attribute has been validated. 

### Case 2: Predicates

I can get information about mathematical values by asking predicate questions regarding that information, but never know the actual value itself. In this case, the most obvious use is to determine if a value is greater or equal to something else. If I need to know that you are 21 or older, I can ask the question "Is your Birth Date before this date, x amount of years ago?" If you have a Credential Attribute named "Date of Birth" and I query this Attribute with my predicate, I can know only partial information about this value. If you are actually 34 and your birth date is correct, I will *only* have the information that you are indeed over 21 and can legally purchase alcohol in thge United States. I *still* don't know your Date of Birth! So no correlatable identity information is given out. 

This method also works with dates for expirations. If each Credential has an Attribute that specifies *when* it was Issued, then that Credential Attribute can be checked against an inherent expiration. The nice thing about this is that Expiration is now in the control of the Proof Requester, and not the Credential Issuer, which provides flexibility for the length of time considered appropriate. The Credential Issuer can Revoke a Credential, which is a different process than expiration. Expiration is the prerogative of the Proof Requester, while Revocation is the prerogative of the Credential Issuer (see Revocations).

### Case 3: Sets

Sets use Boolean logic to determine whether you are in one or more sets, which could be used to sort categories of people, objects, or groups without revealing personal identity. For instance, you may have several chat room groups that you belong to, and a single Credential Attribute may list all of the chat rooms you belong to. A Proof Request may request to know if you are in the group "#Salsa", but not need to know if you are in the other sets at all. Thus it can pick out one set you belong to without revealing *all* the sets you belong to.